---
layout: default
title: "Miz Jam DAY 1"
---
This is the first of 8 logs for #MizJam1,  
the details of the jam are available [here](https://itch.io/jam/miz-jam-1).

Each day, from 2PM to 8PM, I will spend time working on my entry for this jam.  
This will total 48 hours of development.

### Planning
Given the small nature of the art kit provided, my first approach was to scan it for any specifically interesting graphics. I had decided before hand that I would use this jam to develop some methods for approaching text systems, so the game will hopefully be rich in text.  
This jam revolves around the artkit, so I will primarily try to design around it.  

Three images stood out to me, from the kit:  
The first is the set of yellow joysticks, which appeared like a mechanical eye to me, not unlike my own. This could definitely serve as part of some larger creature.  
The second is the included set of chess pieces. I adore chess pieces.  
The third is the included set of playing cards, which have a similar quality.

Chess and Cards are old games, and both have an element of strategy - but Cards also have symbolism inherent.  
Cards are often associated with fate and feats,  
of note are the Spades (which are actually polearms of a sort), who represent soldiers, most famously the Ace of Spades is cognate with a highly skilled soldier, a bringer of death.

I have decided, then, that my game will be a text-based tactical RPG, where you issue commands to a group of soldiers via command-line.  
There will be dialogue, and the dialogue will be the driving force of the game, but I would like to make a game with some sort of challenge, as well. I like to make games that I myself would like to play. (at least in theory)

I would like to make better use of the artkit, manipulating the images in some way - perhaps using them as textures on models - but I lack the skills to do so, and I would like to focus on developing others at the moment.

### Development
For the most part, I have only really done 'paper planning' with regards to game development.  
The game will definitely be played on a grid. However, given the player's only interaction with the game will be through command-line, this grid will have to function like a chessboard, and the player will issue commands as they would in chess.  
If you're unfamiliar with how that works, here is an example where a Knight moves to f3:  
```
  Nf3  
```

for my purposes, this will be adapted to work without referencing units themselves, instead working solely with their coordinates;  
here is an example where a unit moves, and one where it attacks:  
```
  A1:C2  
  C2xA6
```

As this is a text-based game, I will allow for players to issue invalid commands to units.  
Those commands will be responded to with dialogue from the characters,  
things like "Can't move there, sir!"; "That's not one of mine."

Speaking of characters, this game is definitely going to involve Ceal and Emma.  
There is a story involving them available [here](/a/future/E&C/starbed).