---
layout: default
title: "Miz Jam DAY 5"
---
This is the fifth of 8 logs for #MizJam1,  
the details of the jam are available [here](https://itch.io/jam/miz-jam-1).

Each day, from 2PM to 8PM, I will spend time working on my entry for this jam.  
This will total 48 hours of development.

### Planning
As is stereotypical of jams (as far as I can see):  
making it through half of my time, I have decided to abandon my original idea for something more manageable.  
Or well, slightly less than half of the time, considering I didn't spend a full 6 hours yesterday, nor did I spend it the day before. I have 28 hours or so to spend on this new concept.

I'm going to make a simple space shooter. Asteroids is a technically simple, but rewarding game, and I really should've started with it. It is an ideal game to make for the first time using an engine.

Though, simply making asteroids is not very interesting or fun.  
I'd like to add boids, if I have the time.  
As such, the focus of my 'asteroids-like' will be on ship vs ship combat, rather than attacking asteroids.  
Whether I can implement boids or not, the player, and a set of allied ships will face off against enemy ships and try to emerge victorious.

### Development
Given how simple Asteroids is, it wasn't difficult to implement a working movement system.  
After doing so, I immediately got to work implementing boid behaviour. Boids are governed by three conceptually simply rules:  
1. Separation; Where each boid steers to avoid contact with other boids
2. Alignment; Where each boid steers to head in the same direction as other boids
3. Cohesion; Where each boid steers to move towards the centre of other boids

Additionally, because this is a game with combat, the ships will have to steer to avoid being shot at, as well as track and shoot down other ships. This brings our total rules up to 5:
1. Seperation
2. Alignment
3. Cohesion
4. Avoidance
5. Hunting

Rules 1-3 were understood easily with the help of codat's [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iGvbb2HlCdQ) and especially [source code](https://github.com/codatproduction/Boids-simulation)

Rules 4 and 5 are variants of 1 and 3, respectively; this makes it easier to implement them, but also introduces a problem: conflicting goals.

All 5 rules are yet to be implemented. I will do it first thing, tomorrow. 

### Current Affairs
Despite the loss of power today, I did a good amount of work. I learn substantially more about godot without stressing as much.