---
layout: default
title: "Miz Jam DAY 7"
---
This is the seventh of 8 logs for #MizJam1,  
the details of the jam are available [here](https://itch.io/jam/miz-jam-1).

Each day, from 2PM to 8PM, I will spend time working on my entry for this jam.  
This will total 48 hours of development.

### Development
I managed to make the ship flocks interact correctly, through overwriting the get_class() function. They now avoid all ships, but only follow ships of the same kind, where Bolts also have a preference for following the player (who is also a Bolt.)  

I also managed to implement a simple firing trigger based on raycasts, and the basic projectile that goes alongside it. Ships now fire when an object that is not allied pasess in front of them.  
This behaviour is very simple, and does not constitute Hunting. Though it does lay the groundwork for Avoidance.  

I have only 6 hours left on my 48 hours, and I haven't made a game. Just some boids with a player.  
What is there is fun, though. Getting the Bolts to follow along and fire at Tones is fun.  
And for that, I am glad. At least I made something that constitutes a toy.  
Not only that, I learned a lot along the way, and that's the most important part of a game jam.
(At least, for the less experienced, I'd say.)

I'd like to rework the boid movement to more closely match the player's, and playing around with the boids has given me a better idea of how I'd go about doing it.  
Mostly, I noticed that, as they are now, the boids do not match the rotation of the player - if they did, they would fly in unison far more accurately, as their accelerations would be in the same direction.  
Additionally, now that I understand how to use Position2D Nodes, I could implement a rudimentary vision of squadron formations - placing a position, behind each wing of the Bolt, and having the Bolts try to target the nearest one, instead of the central mass of all Bolts, would make them fly in formation.
Most important is that I learned what the '$' operator does. It's quite useful, as it allows me to interact with other Nodes directly.

### Current Affairs
I'll put in my final 6 hours tomorrow.  
I probably won't finish the game on time, it's just too far from a game.  
But that's alright. I'll publish the source to a git repository, and finish the game after the jam.  
It's unfortunate if I don't have an entry to submit, but it's nothing to be too down about.
I must finish the game, though. I want to get into the habit of not leaving projects unfinished.